This year, the update to the global assessment of
food security and nutrition reflects a particular
moment in history. While the pandemic, the
ensuing economic rebound, the war in Ukraine,
and soaring prices of food, agricultural inputs
and energy have all played out differently
across regions with differing impacts, new
estimates indicate hunger is no longer on the
rise at the global level but is still far above
pre-COVID-19-pandemic levels and far off track to
achieve Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 2.
As past editions of this report have highlighted,
the intensification of the major drivers of food
insecurity and malnutrition – conflict, climate
extremes, economic slowdowns and downturns,
and growing inequality – often occurring in
combination, is challenging our efforts to achieve
the SDGs. There is no question these threats will
continue, requiring that we remain steadfast to
build resilience against them. However, there
are still important megatrends that must be
fully understood when devising policies to meet
the SDG 2 targets.
One such megatrend, and the focus of this year’s
report, is urbanization. As urbanization increases,
rural and urban areas are becoming more
intertwined, and the spatial distinction between
them is becoming more fluid. The changing
pattern of population agglomerations across
this rural–urban continuum is driving changes
throughout agrifood systems, creating both
challenges and opportunities to ensure everyone
has access to affordable healthy diets.
After presenting the latest updates of the food
security and nutrition situation around the world,
the report then examines the drivers, patterns and
dynamics of urbanization through a rural–urban
continuum lens and presents new analysis on
how urbanization is changing food supply and
demand across the rural–urban continuum.
Complementing this, further analyses for
selected countries explore differences in the cost
and affordability of a healthy diet, and in food
insecurity and different forms of malnutrition
across the rural–urban continuum.
Building on these insights, the report identifies
policies, investments and new technologies to
address the challenges, and capitalize on the
opportunities, that urbanization brings for
ensuring access to affordable healthy diets for
everyone, across the rural–urban continuum.